Add guide for stability-monitor (#1417)
Samsung/tizen-docs: docs/platform/porting/system.md

  $ sleep 123 &
  $ livedumper -f sleep.core -m $?
```

### Stability monitor

The purpose of the stability monitor is to keep track of the usage of system resources with low overhead. The resources that are tracked for maximum and average usage are as follows:
-  CPU
-  Memory
-  Input/Output
-  Open file descriptors (only maximum value is measured, not average).

> Resources are consumed by various processes, classified according to their type as application or service. Applications have the type (native, web app, .NET), and state (foreground, background). The process parameters are distinguished in configuration, and various parameters can be assigned to different services and applications. When excessive use of resources abnormality is detected, an appropriate D-Bus signal is sent, and an optional abnormality report is generated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion 
Resources are consumed by various processes and are classified according to their type: application or service. Applications have the type as native, web app, and .NET, with the state as foreground and background. The process parameters are distinguished in configuration and various parameters can be assigned to different services and applications. When excessive use of resources abnormality is detected, an appropriate D-Bus signal is sent, and an optional abnormality report is generated.
```
Slight modification for better comprehension. Please check for technical accuracy, then only incorporate.

#### Kernel module

The stability monitor relies on the kernel module, which collects information about processes state in the system in most resource efficient way. This raw data is exposed via `/proc/tsm` interface.

The following resource statistics are collected:
-  CPU: system time and user time [cpu_usage = d(system_time + user_time) / dt].
-  Memory: RSS.
-  I/O: bytes read and bytes written.
-  FDs: number of open file descriptors.

#### Service

> The purpose of **stability-monitor** service is to:

Reviewer: Is bold needed for stability-monitor?

-  **global**  
     Global section for all processes.

-  **foreground_native_app**  
     Native applications running in foreground.

-  **background_native_app**  
     Native applications running in background.

-  **foreground_web_app**  
     Web applications running in foreground.

-  **background_web_app**  
     Web applications running in background.

-  **foreground_csharp_app**  
     .NET applications running in foreground.

-  **background_csharp_app**  
     .NET applications running in background.

-  **foreground_ui_widget**  
     Widget applications running in foreground.

-  **background_ui_widget**  
     Widget applications running in background.

-  **native_service**  
     Service applications.

-  **other_service**  
     Other system processes.

The `global` is the rule-set used as a fallback when neither the process-specific nor the relevant class-wide configuration exists. In addition to the rules described as follows, this rule-set must specify the `sampling_rate` value which describes how often to read the process data from the kernel.

> Each ruleset specifies a set of parameters applicable to the given process or group. These are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each rule-set specifies a set of parameters applicable to the given process or group . The rule-sets are as follows:
```
Please verify for technical accuracy.

        "monitor": 1,
        "cpu_limit_avg": 0.7,
        "cpu_limit_peak": 0.9,
        "mem_limit_peak": 0.3,
    },

    "sleep":{
        "monitor": 0,
    },

    "stability-monitor":{
        "monitor": 0,
        "print_current": 0,
        "cpu_limit_avg": 0.02,
        "cpu_avg_period": 10,
    },

    "crash-manager":{
        "monitor": 0,
        "apply_to_children": 1,
    },

    "9zWvGSYU8Z.calendar": {
        "print_current": 1,
    }
}
```

#### D-Bus signal

When the abnormality is detected, the stability monitor sends one of the following D-Bus signals, depending on the module or parameter that detected or caused the abnormality:

-  **cpu**

    Signature: `isdda{sv}`  
    Member: `AbnormalityDetected`  
    Interface: `org.tizen.abnormality.cpu.relative`  
    Path: `/Org/Tizen/StabilityMonitor/tsm_cpu`  
    Data structure:  

    Data                  | Type   | Description
    ----------------------|--------|------------
    pid                   | INT32  | Process ID
    limitType             | STRING | Either `peak` or `avg`
    cpuRelative           | DOUBLE | Actual value that caused the abnormality
    maxAllowedCpuRelative | DOUBLE | Allowed value

>     array                 | ARRAY  | Additional parameters

Reviewer: Global: Please add period for descriptions in tables:
```suggestion
    Data                  | Type   | Description
    ----------------------|--------|------------
    pid                   | INT32  | Process ID.
    limitType             | STRING | Either `peak` or `avg`.
    cpuRelative           | DOUBLE | Actual value that caused the abnormality.
    maxAllowedCpuRelative | DOUBLE | Allowed value.
    array                 | ARRAY  | Additional parameters.

-  **mem**

    Signature: `isdda{sv}`  
    Member: `AbnormalityDetected`  
    Interface: `org.tizen.abnormality.mem.relative`  
    Path: `/Org/Tizen/StabilityMonitor/tsm_mem`  
    Data structure:  

    Data                  | Type   | Description
    ----------------------|--------|------------
    pid                   | INT32  | Process ID
    limitType             | STRING | Either `peak` or `avg`
    memRelative           | DOUBLE | Actual value that caused the abnormality
    maxAllowedMemRelative | DOUBLE | Allowed value
    array                 | ARRAY  | Additional parameters

> -  **io**

Reviewer: We usually write I/O, I think this is a rule-set name so we can use io. 

Am I right?  please clear my doubt.

Author: This is just description, I've changed it.

    limitType             | STRING | Either `peak` or `avg`.
    IOAbsolute            | DOUBLE | Actual value that caused the abnormality.
    maxAllowedIOAbsolute  | DOUBLE | Allowed value.
    array                 | ARRAY  | Additional parameters.

-  **File descriptors**

    Signature: `isdda{sv}`  
    Member: `AbnormalityDetected`  
    Interface: `org.tizen.abnormality.fd.absolute`  
    Path: `/Org/Tizen/StabilityMonitor/tsm_fd`  
    Data structure:  

    Data                  | Type   | Description
    ----------------------|--------|------------
    pid                   | INT32  | Process ID.
    limitType             | STRING | Always `peak`.
    FDsAbsolute           | DOUBLE | Actual value that caused the abnormality.
    maxAllowedFDsAbsolute | DOUBLE | Allowed value.
    array                 | ARRAY  | Additional parameters.

The array of additional parameters is the same for all modules and contains pairs of keys (STRING) and values (VARIANT):

Key           | Type   | Description
--------------|--------|---------------
report_path   | STRING | Path to the bug report.
killed        | BOOL   | `True` if process has been killed, `False` otherwise.

> process_name  | STRING | Either application ID for applications or executable name for others..

Reviewer: ```suggestion
process_name  | STRING | Either application ID for applications or executable name for others.

#### Kernel module

**stability-monitor** relies on kernel module, which collects information about processes state in the system in most resource efficient way. This raw data is exposed via `/proc/tsm` interface.

The following resource statistics are collected:
-  CPU - system time + user time [cpu_usage = d(system_time + user_time) / dt]
-  Memory - RSS
-  I/O - bytes read + bytes written
-  FDs - number of open file descriptors

#### Service

Purpose of **stability-monitor** service is to:
-  Periodically monitor process state (based on raw data provided by kernel module)
-  Gather additional process specific data from running system (eg. app type & state from AUL and pkgmgr)
-  Read and apply provided configuration to the system (apply configuration defined limits)
-  Generate D-Bus signal (and abnormality report, if configured)

> Service monitors parameters as provided by "data source" modules (which are processing raw data provided by kernel module).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Service monitor parameters provided by  the "data source" modules, which processes raw data provided by kernel module.

> Service monitor parameters provided by  the "data source" modules, which processes raw data provided by kernel module.

Author: You're right, it's not clear. Actually, I can remove it.

> The configuration uses a hierarchical layout which consists of a set of JSON files. The primary file is `/usr/lib/stability-monitor/default.conf`. Additional files can be placed in `/etc/stability-monitor.d` and are read in alphabetical order (such that `Z.conf` will override `A.conf`). Configuration files are merged together (not replaced).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The configuration uses a hierarchical layout which consists of a set of JSON files. The primary file is `/usr/lib/stability-monitor/default.conf`. Additional files can be placed in `/etc/stability-monitor.d`, and the files are read in alphabetical order, for example,  `Z.conf` overrides `A.conf`. Configuration files are merged together and not replaced.

In the resulting JSON object, the top-level entries have keys corresponding to programs, for example:
-  resourced

> -  org.tizen.calendar

Reviewer: Should'nt we keep keys in code styling?

> Program name should be application ID for applications and executable basename (from `/proc/<pid>/exe`) for other system processes.

Reviewer: Can you please rephrase, itis little confusing. 
Program name must bee application ID for applications and executable basename (from `/proc/<pid>/exe`) for other system processes.

If a program does not have specific configuration, the appropriate class-wide configuration is used. The available classes are:
-  **global**  
     Global section for all processes

-  **foreground_native_app**  
     Native applications running in foreground

-  **background_native_app**  
     Native applications running in background

-  **foreground_web_app**  
     Web applications running in foreground

-  **background_web_app**  
     Web applications running in background

-  **foreground_csharp_app**  
     .NET applications running in foreground

-  **background_csharp_app**  
     .NET applications running in background

-  **foreground_ui_widget**  
     Widget applications running in foreground

-  **background_ui_widget**  
     Widget applications running in background

-  **native_service**  
     Service applications

-  **other_service**  

>      Other system processes

Reviewer: To maintain consistency within the page, 
Please add period after text in lines 2580, 2583, 2586, 2589, 2592, 2595, 2598 2601, 2604, 2607, 2610.

> `global` is the ruleset used as a fallback when neither program-specific nor the relevant class-wide configuration exists. In addition to the rules described below, this ruleset should specify the `sampling_rate` value which describes how often (in Hz) to sample program parameters (actual reads from the kernel).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `global` is the rule-set is used as a fallback when neither the program-specific nor the relevant class-wide configuration exists. In addition to the rules described as follows, this rule-set must specify the `sampling_rate` value which describes how often (in Hz) to sample program parameters (actual reads from the kernel).

> Each ruleset specifies a set of parameters to monitor for given program. These are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following rule-sets specify a set of parameters to monitor a given program:
```
Is this suggestion technically fine, please verify.

-  **monitor**  
     Defines whether to monitor a process.

     Default value: `1`

-  **print_current**  

>      Defines whether to print current process' resource usage in realtime.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     Defines whether to print current process resource usage in real-time.

     Default value: `0`

-  **apply_to_children**  

>      Defines whether process' ruleset should be applied to all of its children.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     Defines whether process rule-set should be applied to all of its children.

     Default value: `0`

-  **kill**  
     Defines whether to kill the process after detecting abnormality.

     Default value: `0`

-  **report**  

>      Defines whether to create bugreport after detecting abnormality.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     Defines whether to create bug report after detecting abnormality.

-  **report**  
     Defines whether to create bug report after detecting abnormality.

     Default value: `0`

-  **sampling_rate**  

>      Specifies the sampling rate (Hz). This is the process data update frequency. Maximum allowed value is specified by **sampling_rate** from the `global` section.

Author: This should stay as 'process data', meaning raw data read from the kernel module containing information about system processes.

>      Specifies the sampling rate (Hz). This should not be more often than the value specified in the global section. This limits how much processing is done on data read from kernel, but not the actual reads from kernel (for example if the global section specifies sampling rate 2 and the local section specifies a sampling rate of 1, data will be read from the kernel twice per second but only processed once per second - the second batch of data will be discarded).

Reviewer: This paragraph is too hard to understand for readers. Please paraphrase.

-  **cpu_limit_peak**  
     Specifies the maximum allowed CPU usage in any given sample, where a value of 1.0 corresponds to the equivalent of full use of one core. Note that this is a total and cannot disambiguate between individual cores, and does not know how many cores there are. This means that the same value can represent widely different situations so a lot of care needs to be taken when picking a value. Consider a value of 2.0 and how it could be reached:
     -  a 2-core system where both cores are at 100%. This is extremely heavy usage of the CPU.
     -  an 8-core system where two cores are at 100% and the remaining six are at 0%. This is a bit worrisome but much less of a danger to the system than the above.
     - an 8-core system where all eight cores are at 25%. This is quite a well-behaved application compared to the two.

> 

Reviewer: This paragraph is too hard to understand for readers. Please paraphrase.
Please use subjects instead of pronouns.

     Default value: `4`

-  **mem_limit_peak**  

>      As above, but for memory. The value is similarly system-wide, no way to specify in megabytes.

Reviewer: We do not recommend directional language, please rephrase.

     Default value: `1`

-  **io_limit_peak**  

>      Specifies the maximum I/O usage, in megabytes per second (note, this is unlike the CPU and memory values).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Specifies the maximum I/O usage in megabytes per second (MB/s). The I/O usage is unlike the usage of CPU and memory values.

     Default value: `100`

-  **fd_limit**  
     Specifies the limit of open file descriptors.

     Default value: `1000`

-  **cpu_limit_avg**  
     Specifies the limit for an average CPU usage over period of time specified by `cpu_avg_period`. The meaning is the same as for `cpu_limit_peak`.

     Default value: `4`

-  **mem_limit_avg**  
     Specifies the limit for an average memory usage over period of time specified by `mem_avg_period`. The meaning is the same as for `mem_limit_peak`.

     Default value: `1`

-  **io_limit_avg**  
     Specifies the limit for an average I/O usage over period of time specified by `io_avg_period`. The meaning is the same as for `io_limit_peak`.

     Default value: `100`

-  **cpu_avg_period**  

>      Specifies the averaging period for CPU usage, measured in seconds.

Author: `average period` means something other than `averaging period`. I meant the period of time to calculate the average value.

>      Specifies the averaging period for CPU usage, measured in seconds.

Reviewer: How about this? 

You can write your rephrase instead if I am wrong. 
```suggestion
     Specifies the average period of time to calculate the average CPU usage value, measured in seconds.

     Default value: `10`

-  **mem_avg_period**  

>      Specifies the averaging period for memory usage, measured in seconds.

Reviewer: Refer to https://github.com/Samsung/tizen-docs/pull/1417/commits/0c3276554e557171c35019ea04d5c560271155b6#r606100726

>      Specifies the limit of open file descriptors. This is a "peak" style check, there is no corresponding "avg" check.

Reviewer: **This** refers to?

     Default value: `10`

-  **io_avg_period**  

>      Specifies the averaging period for I/O usage, measured in seconds.

Reviewer: https://github.com/Samsung/tizen-docs/pull/1417/commits/0c3276554e557171c35019ea04d5c560271155b6#r606100726

>      Specifies the limit for CPU usage as a fraction of total CPU available for the system over the most recent period of length specified in `cpu_avg_period`. The meaning is the same as for `cpu_limit_peak`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      Specifies the limit for CPU usage, calculated as a fraction of total CPU available for the system over the most recent period of length, and is specified as `cpu_avg_period`. The meaning is the same as for `cpu_limit_peak`.
```
check for technical accuracy.

>      As above, but for memory.

Reviewer: Please rephrase, avoid using (above, below)

>      As above, but for I/O.

Reviewer: Please rephrase, avoid using (above, below)

>      Specifies the averaging period for CPU usage, in seconds.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     Specifies the averaging period for CPU usage, measured in seconds.

>      As above, but for memory.

Reviewer: Please rephrase, avoid using (above, below)

>      As above, but for I/O.

Reviewer: Please rephrase, avoid using (above, below)

     Default value: `10`

-  **cpu_reporting_period**  

>      Minimum period of time (s) between reporting the abnormalities.

Reviewer: Not clear

     Default value: `20`

-  **mem_reporting_period**  

>      As above.

Reviewer: Please add description 

Please rephrase, avoid using (above, below)

     Default value: `20`

-  **io_reporting_period**  

>      As above.

Reviewer: Please add description

Please rephrase, avoid using (above, below)

     Default value: `20`

-  **fd_reporting_period**  

>      As above.

Reviewer: Please add description

Please rephrase, avoid using (above, below)

     Default value: `-1`

> Example configuration:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following is the example configuration:

        "report": 0,
        "sampling_rate": 1,

        "cpu_limit_avg": 4,
        "cpu_avg_period": 10,
        "cpu_limit_peak": 4,
        "cpu_reporting_period": 20,

        "mem_limit_avg": 1,
        "mem_avg_period": 10,
        "mem_limit_peak": 1,
        "mem_reporting_period": 20,

        "io_limit_avg": 100.0,
        "io_avg_period": 10,
        "io_limit_peak": 100.0,
        "io_reporting_period": 20,

        "fd_limit": 1000,
        "fd_reporting_period": -1,
    },

    "foreground_native_app":{
        "cpu_limit_avg": 0.6,
    },

    "background_native_app":{
        "cpu_limit_avg": 0.5,
    },

    "other_service":{
        "cpu_limit_avg": 0.7,
    },

    "test-stability":{
        "monitor": 1,
        "cpu_limit_avg": 0.7,
        "cpu_limit_peak": 0.9,
        "mem_limit_peak": 0.3,
    },

    "sleep":{
        "monitor": 0,
    },

    "stability-monitor":{
        "monitor": 0,
        "print_current": 0,
        "cpu_limit_avg": 0.02,
        "cpu_avg_period": 10,
    },

    "crash-manager":{
        "monitor": 0,
        "apply_to_children": 1,
    },

    "9zWvGSYU8Z.calendar": {
        "print_current": 1,
    }
}
```

#### D-Bus signal

> When the abnormality is detected, the stability monitor sends one of the following D-Bus signals, depending on the module or parameter that detected or caused the abnormality:

Author: Is there any change?

> When abnormality is detected Stability Monitor sends one of the following D-Bus signals (depending on the module/parameter that detected/caused the abnormality):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the abnormality is detected, the stability monitor sends one of the following D-Bus signals, depending on the module or parameter that detected or caused the abnormality:

    maxAllowedMemRelative <double>
    dict {
        report_path <variant(string)>
        killed <variant(bool)>
        process_name <variant(string)>
        process_state <variant(string)>
    }
```

-  **io**
```
objpath:   /Org/Tizen/StabilityMonitor/tsm_io
interface: org.tizen.abnormality.io.absolute:
member:    "AbnormalityDetected"
parameters: (isdda{sv})
    pid <int32>
    limitType <string>
    IOAbsolute <double>
    maxAllowedIOAbsolute <double>
    dict {
        report_path <variant(string)>
        killed <variant(bool)>
        process_name <variant(string)>
        process_state <variant(string)>
    }
```

-  **fd**
```
objpath:   /Org/Tizen/StabilityMonitor/tsm_fd
interface: org.tizen.abnormality.fd.absolute:
member:    "AbnormalityDetected"
parameters: (isiia{sv})
    pid <int32>
    limitType <string>
    FDsAbsolute <int32>
    maxAllowedFDsAbsolute <int32>
    dict {
        report_path <variant(string)>
        killed <variant(bool)>
        process_name <variant(string)>
        process_state <variant(string)>
    }
```

>  [!NOTE]
> The following parameters can have a few possible values:
> -  `limitType` can be either "peak" or "avg",

> > -  `process_name` can be either application ID (for applications) or executable name (for others),

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> - `process_name` can either be application ID for applications or executable name for others,

> -  `process_state` can be either "foreground" or "background".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
>  [!NOTE]
> The following parameters can have a few possible values:
> -  `limitType` can be either "peak" or "avg",
> -  `process_name` can be either application ID (for applications) or basename of `/proc/<pid>/exe` (for others),
> -  `process_state` can be either "foreground" or "background".

> Example signal:

Reviewer: ```
The following is example signal configuration:

member: "AbnormalityDetected"
parameters: (isdda{sv})
    pid <int32>
    limitType <string>
    cpuRelative <double>
    maxAllowedCpuRelative <double>
    dict {
        report_path <variant(string)>
        killed <variant(bool)>
        process_name <variant(string)>
        process_state <variant(string)>
    }
```

-  **mem**
```
objpath:   /Org/Tizen/StabilityMonitor/tsm_mem
interface: org.tizen.abnormality.mem.relative:
member:    "AbnormalityDetected"
parameters: (isdda{sv})
    pid <int32>
    limitType <string>
    memRelative <double>
    maxAllowedMemRelative <double>
    dict {
        report_path <variant(string)>
        killed <variant(bool)>
        process_name <variant(string)>
        process_state <variant(string)>
    }
```

-  **io**
```
objpath:   /Org/Tizen/StabilityMonitor/tsm_io
interface: org.tizen.abnormality.io.absolute:
member:    "AbnormalityDetected"
parameters: (isdda{sv})
    pid <int32>
    limitType <string>
    IOAbsolute <double>
    maxAllowedIOAbsolute <double>
    dict {
        report_path <variant(string)>
        killed <variant(bool)>
        process_name <variant(string)>
        process_state <variant(string)>
    }
```

-  **fd**

> ```

Reviewer: Global: Please add language identifier
Please check semi-colons in code segements.

Author: Actually this is not a code, just description of the DBus signal. I will describe it in different way.

objpath:   /Org/Tizen/StabilityMonitor/tsm_fd
interface: org.tizen.abnormality.fd.absolute:
member:    "AbnormalityDetected"
parameters: (isiia{sv})
    pid <int32>
    limitType <string>
    FDsAbsolute <int32>
    maxAllowedFDsAbsolute <int32>
    dict {
        report_path <variant(string)>
        killed <variant(bool)>
        process_name <variant(string)>
        process_state <variant(string)>
    }
```

>  [!NOTE]
> The following parameters can have a few possible values:
> -  `limitType` can be either "peak" or "avg",
> -  `process_name` can either be application ID for applications or executable name for others,
> -  `process_state` can be either "foreground" or "background".

The following is example signal observed with `dbus-monitor`:
```
signal time=1547866746.490843 sender=:1.73054 -> destination=(null destination) serial=3 path=/Org/Tizen/StabilityMonitor/tsm_cpu; interface=org.tizen.abnormality.cpu.relative; member=AbnormalityDetected
   int32 27124
   string "peak"
   double 0.962084
   double 0.95
   array [
      dict entry(
         string "report_path"

>          variant             string "/opt/usr/share/crash/dump//top_27124_20190118215903.zip"

Reviewer: Would this path vary?

Can we write like this?

```suggestion
         variant             string "<PATH/FILE_NAME.zip>"

Author: The prefix of the path is constant: `/opt/usr/share/crash/`.
I would prefer to leave the path as it is, because this is the example of specific signal observed with dbus-monitor, not a template or so.

Reviewer: @kkuchciak thats fine, thanks for clarifying.
